As a blockchain developer,
you'll use transactions as a means to transfer value.
Every transaction that's adopted in the blockchain need signatures.
There are commands that provide a way to create signatures programmatically.
In this video, we'll cover some helpful commands related to
digital signatures you can perform in the debug console.
The commands we'll cover are signrawtransaction and signmessage.
These are a little more complicated than other commands and we'll be
getting into much more detail on transactions later in the program.
This video is just meant to introduce you to some of
the commands you can use without getting into too much detail.
First, we'll cover signrawtransaction.
This does exactly what it says and allows you to sign the inputs for a raw transaction.
The only difference between a transaction and
a raw transaction is that a raw transaction is formatted to be readable by computers.
It follows the rules of the bitcoin protocol to process
the human readable transaction and turn it into
a single value that can be interpreted by a computer.
We'll be using this later in the program as we start to
create and sign transactions for our applications.
Using the help function,
you can see that this command takes in
quite a bit of arguments and can get pretty complex.
Reading a little more detail,
we can see that the second and third arguments are optional.
This allows us to simplify the command a bit at least for now.
Using only the required commands,
what we need is a transaction hex string and a private key.
Running this on a transaction that has already been processed results in an error.
Since I don't have any unsigned transactions right now,
I can't run this command.
But here's a quick overview of how to get a transaction hex string
and a private key in case you'd like to piece this together for yourself.
To get a transaction hex string,
first use getblockhash to find a block,
then use getblock to find a transaction within that block.
Finally, choose a transaction from the block and input this to get raw transaction.
This returns the hex string for that transaction.
Using this and a private key,
you now have the inputs for signrawtransaction.
You can get your private key using dumpprivatekey.
We haven't covered that yet but it's
a pretty simple way to get the private key for your wallet.
Dump private key needs you to also give an address.
You can get this by going to File,
Receiving addresses and then creating a new one or copying an existing address.
Now, paste that after the command and what you get back is a private key.
Like I mentioned, I'm not running the signrawtransaction command,
but this should give you at least some of the tools to start exploring this for yourself.
Other commands involving signatures also get a little
more complicated similar to signrawtransaction.
Some of these commands are sign message and sign message with private key.
These generally involve getting hold of some information about the wallets and
transactions involved and piecing them together to sign a message.
Transactions are at the core of many blockchain applications,
we're just touching on these commands briefly for now,
but future lessons will expand on the creation and signature of messages much more.
To recap, we discussed some helpful commands
that you can use to explore signature information.
We went over some details on how to navigate
the signrawtransaction command but didn't get into too much detail on how to execute it.
This was mostly to make sure you're familiar with
these commands but without getting too far into the details.
If you'd like, use this as an opportunity to explore these commands for yourself.
You're hopefully pretty familiar with the help command at this point and you've
gotten most of the information you need to go ahead with these commands yourself.
If you're not sure how to do this or would rather move forward, that's fine too.
We'll jump back into a few new commands in the next section.